# MTech_project
Graph based semantically Extractive tool for text summarization using similarity score
In the past few decades there has been an explosion in the amount of available data produced from various sources. The necessary information from the available data adopts us to develop computational tools for exploring the data. A number of tools have been developed through online and offline. But, developing a computational tool through has created interest for the researchers at different communities for processing the data.  A line of study has generated for condensing the text in to a shorter version of the original text so that we can get a higher level of understanding from it. Likewise automatic text summarization is the process of shortening the text from the original content and also it should be meaningful and understandable for the readers. There are two types of text summarization. One is Extractive and other is Abstractive. Extractive text summarization deals with identifying the most important sentences from the document but neglects its semantics. Abstractive text summarization represents the meaning of the sentences in different context but needs a lot of corpus to train. Here, we adopted graph based Page Rank algorithm by accessing the Google Universal sentence Encoder to generate a meaningful sentence Embeddings in order to calculate the similarity score of the sentences. An adoptable approach Lex Rank summarizer based on page rank is used to recommend the sentences with the one having closer similarity scores. Further, in these comparisons of the two similarity sentence scores is evaluated with Bleu scores and Similarity scores.
